.\" Manpage for flatpak-automatic.
.TH FLATPAK-AUTOMATIC 1 "May 2026" "flatpak-automatic" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
flatpak-automatic \- Secure, systemd-native automation for Flatpak updates
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B flatpak-automatic
[\fB\-d\fR] [\fB\-t\fR] [\fB\-f\fR] [\fB\-s\fR] [\fB\-l\fR] [\fB\-a\fR] [\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-r\fR] [\fB\-e\fR] [\fB\-x\fR] [\fB\-\-desktop\-mode\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B flatpak-automatic
is a secure, systemd-native automation wrapper for Flatpak updates. It features Snapper-integrated atomic rollbacks, multi-channel alerting (Apprise, Mail, Webhooks, Desktop), and supports both system-wide and rootless user-level execution. Designed for reliability and ease of use, it ensures your Flatpak environment remains current and resilient.

.SH NON-ROOT MODE
To execute the updater without elevated privileges, utilize the user-level systemd units:
.PP
\fBsystemctl --user enable flatpak-automatic.timer\fR
.br
\fBsystemctl --user start flatpak-automatic.timer\fR
.PP
This isolates update operations within the user session for enhanced security.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BR \-d ", " \-\-dry\-run
Simulate the update process without applying changes or triggering snapshots.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-test\-notify
Send a test notification to all configured endpoints.
.TP
.BR \-f ", " \-\-force
Force the update process, bypassing the minimum delay guard and auto_update policy.
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-status
Display a system monitoring overview of configuration and pending updates.
.TP
.BR \-l ", " \-\-history
Display recent execution history from journalctl.
.TP
.BR \-a ", " \-\-apply\-schedule
Apply systemd timer overrides based on config settings.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-check\-config
Validate and print the current YAML configuration, then exit.
.TP
.BR \-r ", " \-\-reload
Send SIGHUP to the running flatpak-automatic.service to reload its configuration.
.TP
.BR \-e ", " \-\-enable\-timer
Enable and start the systemd timer. This command automatically detects whether it should operate on the system-wide or user-level timer based on the user's privileges. It replaces the manual 'systemctl enable --now' commands.
.TP
.BR \-x ", " \-\-disable\-timer
Disable and stop the systemd timer. Like the enable command, this automatically detects the correct system or user scope. It replaces manual 'systemctl disable --now' commands.
.TP
.BR \-\-desktop\-mode
Run in interactive desktop mode. This keeps the terminal window open after the update process finishes by prompting the user to press Enter. This is primarily used by the application's desktop entry.
.SH FILES
.I /etc/flatpak-automatic/config.yaml
.RS
Primary system-wide YAML configuration file.
.RE
.I /etc/flatpak-automatic/config.user.yaml
.RS
Default configuration template for non-root users.
.RE
.I ~/.config/flatpak-automatic/config.yaml
.RS
User-specific configuration override. Automatically generated from
.I config.example.yaml
on first run if missing.
.RE
.I /etc/flatpak-automatic/templates/
.RS
Directory containing Markdown and HTML notification templates.
.RE
.I /var/cache/flatpak-automatic/state.json
.RS
System-wide execution state and history.
.RE
.I ~/.cache/flatpak-automatic/state.json
.RS
User-level execution state and history.
.RE
.SH AUTHOR
Maintained by FedoraBee.
